So at the moment in this typology Ratatouille is running not on fast Ethan it is 0 1 and is being overloading
on that interface to allow Ratto one and Rato for to connect to rodders 3.
So Ping 8 had one that one.
T Rotto one is now able to connect to router 3.
Now this is only for fun.
What I'm going to do now is extend the topology and connect genius 3 to my physical network interface
card.
So I mean it connected to my local area network and what I'll do is add a nother ethernet interface
to Ratatouille.
Sorority's now connected to the outside world on fast Ethernet 1 slash zero so on router to interface
one slash is zero.
No shut IP address DHC.
So that I get an IP address via DHP this interface connects me to my local area network which in turn
connects me to the internet so I can ping the Internet from my Windows PC as an example and I've now
bridged Jeana's 3 to the same network.
The rot has been allocated to this address and this is another reason to use overloading to an interface
because previously we configured an IP address statically.
But on this new interface we don't have an IP address statically configured the IP address is dynamically
configured so we want to overload the interface.
So IP not inside source list specify an access list one which we created previously in this case.
I'm going to overload Ethan at one slash is zero.
To law both hosts to be netted and to be able to connect to the Internet.
So show IP Nachke translations shows no translations at the moment but I've enabled net on this interface
as well as this interface.
So not a one paying Google dot com doesn't work.
I need to enable IP domain lookup and I need to specify a name server.
And in this example I'll just use Google so ping Google dot com.
Sure IP not translations.
I'm not seeing any translations at the moment.
So let's do some troubleshooting.
Show IP raat.
We have a default wrocht to 10 1 1 2 ping 10 1 1 t we can ping the router.
So let's do it D-bag IP Nat on this router.
Also to check whether this router can pin google.com directly the moment it can so IP domain look up
my IP name server specified Google
so that Rodek can ping Google get the local rodded to ping Google let's see if we see a problem if zero
slashes zero is on the inside.
That's right.
If 0 1 is on the outside.
That's correct.
But I forgot to put IP Nat outside on first.
Ethan it once was zero.
So IP not outside needs to be enabled on that interface show IP Nat translations no translations at
the moment.
Let's ping Google dot com.
That looks a lot better.
Ping's succeed and I'm getting my next translation so tender wondered wondered one that Rodda is translated
to 1 2 1 6 8 1 1 15:9 going to google at the top here.
You can see the DNS query to the Google DNS servers and then a reply comes back.
So this router running ingenius 3 is doing DNS queries against Google's DNS server on the internet.
Locally the rod is being netted from 10 1 1 1 to this address.
Now that is a nother RAFC 19:18 address but on Rodek to through DHP Mahratta has learnt that the default
Gateway's 1 9 2 1 6 8 1 2 5 4 which is my local DSL internet router you can see some of the net queries
coming out here.
Let's do a ping again show IP Nat translation there's a net translation in the table.
I could as an example telnet to Google dot com on port 80.
It's connected.
So connection is open.
You can see that the traffic is being nattered there it's going out press control See here you can see
we get some bad HMO.
And the that continues I could as an example go to another Web site.
Let's go to yahoo dot com.
So they had traces 46 of a go to put the port number in.
So the net is taking place but the server denied the connection.
Let's go to port 80 and you can see that the connection is now opened to yahoo dot com and we can see
the translations taking place.
Price controls see we get a bunch of HVM all here and you can see some translations taking place.
Notice he has the body of the HMO.
And if we scroll up we'll probably be able to see some messages from yahoo dot com as an example.
So that's an example of using overloading on two separate interfaces.
In one example we keeping it with ingenius 3.
And then the other example we actually connecting to the Internet.